Hi, I’m Chad, I’ve been talking a little
bit about sport bikes and we’re going to
talk a little bit now about choosing a sport
bike. As I’ve said with sport bikes, they’re
racing machines and they’re basically toned
down for the street, and there’s some differences
between motor and seating. And it’s important
to make a decision about what you’re looking
for in a bike when you choose a sport bike.
A sport bike needs to fit. And they’re all
really great, every brand is really a fine
piece of machinery. But each one will feel
a little different. Basically, the way your
legs will fit on, how you reach to the handles,
how low the handles are, how high the seat
is, the shape of the seat, the width of the
seat- there’s a lot of different feels,
it’s all feel. And it’s critically important
because you control your bike with your body
position. You need to be able to hold on to
the tank and have your feet in the right place
so that you can ride the bike effectively.
So when you choose a bike, the best thing
to do really is go down to the dealership
and sit on all of them. See what feels the
best, what makes you feel comfortable on the
bike, you’re locked into the bike. Also
important is to make sure they have the bike
that you’ re looking for. Do you want a
more twitchy race bike? Or do you want a bike
that’s a little bit more adapted to the
street. Also, size is very important. Starting
out at one thousand for a sport bike is probably
not a good idea unless you’ve been riding
bikes, other kinds of bikes, for a long time.
Six hundreds, even, can be very, very powerful,
very hard to handle, if you haven’t any
experience. But if you’re stepping to the
sport bike experience, you’ve already been
doing some riding, six hundred’s a really
great place to start. They’ve got a lot
of power, lot of good handling. But yet, they
don’t allow you to quite get into trouble
as quickly as a one thousand would with as
much power as they have. That’s basically
the importance, or the important points, of
picking out. How it fits, how you feel on
it, whether the bike is the kind of bike that
you’re looking for, and if it’s the size
that you’re comfortable with and it does
what you want it to do. Just as important
as picking out, and always remember your gear-
it’s as important as you bike.